REGISTRATION PASSWORD FIELD

TS1: Check whether we can enter the password in the password field
TS2: Verify if the password field is of proper size.
TS3: Verify the maximum strength for the password field.
TS4: Verify the minimum strength for the password field.
TS5: Check whether the password field accepts only letters.
TS6: Check whether the password field accepts only numbers.
TS7: Check whether the password field accepts combination of uppercase, lowercase, numbers, special characters.
TS8: Check whether the text is legible.
TS9: Check whether the password field accepts space as character.
TS10: Check whether any error message is displayed or not when we click on the submit button without entering anything in the password field.
TS11: Check whether strong/weak password is shown after entering the password.
TS12: Check whether any message is displayed if the caps lock key is ON while entering the password.
TS13: Check whether the re-enter password field is given.
TS14: Check whether any error message is displayed or not when the re-enter password field is kept blank.
TS15: Check whether any error message is displayed or not when a different password is entered in the re-enter password field.
TS16: Check whether the re-enter password field accepts the same password that is entered in the password field.
TS17: Check whether we can copy password and paste it in the re-enter password field.
TS18: Check whether we can paste password in the password field
TS19: Check whether the guidelines such as password strength, characters which are allowed and which are not etc… are displayed for the password field.
TS20: Check whether the field masks the password while writing.
TS21: Check whether the password becomes visible when we click on the eye button.
TS22: Check whether the password field has asterisk symbol to show that the field is mandatory.
TS23: Check whether the password field allows or restrict us from entering characters that are not allowed.
TS24: Check whether any error message is displayed or not when specified criteria for the password field is not met.
TS25: Check whether the password field is encrypted

AMAZON CART

TS1: Check whether there is add to cart option.
TS2: Check whether it is displaying ‘cart is empty’ message, when no item is added to the card.
TS3: Verify the time taken for the item to get added to the cart.
TS4: Verify if the brand name of the item selected and item in the cart matches.
TS5: Verify if the price of the item selected and item in the cart matches.
TS6: Verify if the discounts are correctly applied to the items in the cart.
TS7: Verify if the offers applicable for the items in the cart are displayed.
TS8: Check whether the quantity of items in the cart is displayed.
TS9: Check whether there is provision for changing the quantity of items in the cart.
TS10: Check whether ‘save for later’ option applicable.
TS11: Check whether we can remove multiple items from the cart.
TS12: Verify for how much time the item will be in the cart before proceeding with payment.
TS13: Check whether we can add items to the cart anytime.
TS14: Check whether there is any minimum quantity requirement. 
TS15: Verify the maximum number of items that can be added.
TS16: Check whether we can add address and location details.
TS17: Check whether we can edit address and location details.
TS18: Verify the payment options available (COD, Card options available).
TS19: Verify if we can go back to home page anytime
TS20: Verify if the delivery dates are displayed for each item in the cart.
TS21: Check whether it redirects to the product page when we click on the product in the cart.
TS22: Check whether we can remove single item from the cart.
TS22: Check whether the total amount is displayed .

GOOGLE SEARCH FIELD

TS1: Check whether we can edit the search field.
TS2: Check whether the search icon is displayed.
TS3: Check whether characters, numbers and special characters are accepted in the search field.
TS4: Check whether the ‘search by voice’ icon is present.
TS5: Check whether voice search is possible.
TS6: Check whether we can copy paste text in the search field.
TS7: Check whether image search is possible.
TS8: Check whether we can copy paste images on the search field.
TS9: Check whether the suggestions are coming while typing.
TS10: Check whether we can select from the suggestions.
TS11: Check whether we can delete the typed text in the search field.
TS12: Check whether the suggestions are related to what we have searched.
TS13: Check whether it is redirecting to the ‘search result page’ when we press enter or click search icon, after entering the text in the search field.
TS14: Check whether relevant results are shown in the search result page.
TS15: Check whether there is suggestion for correcting spelling mistakes in the text searched.
TS16: Check whether we can search questions in the search field.
TS17: Verify the maximum strength of the search field.
TS18: Verify what happens when search field is kept blank and pressed enter.
TS19: Verify if the previous searched items are coming as suggestions when we place the cursor on the search field.
TS20: Verify if can remove the previous searched items from the suggestions.
TS21: Check whether any error message is shown when audio is not recorded properly during voice search.
TS22: Check whether proper instructions are shown after we click voice search.
TS23: Check whether the contents of the search field is same as what we have said using voice search.
TS24: Check whether any sound is made when voice search fails.
TS25: Check whether it automatically redirect to the search field when the voice search fails.
TS26: Check whether we can type URLs in the search field.
TS27: Verify the fond size of the text.

FUNCTIONALITY

TS1: Check whether all the links, buttons, menus etc… work as expected
TS2: Check whether all links redirect to correct destination page
TS3: Verify if there is any broken links
TS4: Check whether the links behave consistently across all browsers
TS5: Check whether the links are placed in a consistent and logical location on each page, such as in the header or footer
TS6: Check whether the website’s search bar returns relevant results
TS7: Check whether the hamburger menu has the required options and can be selected.
TS8: Check whether all the input fields are present and are editable
TS9: Check whether we can select from the drop down menu
TS10: Check whether the website’s footer navigation contains all the necessary links to important sections of the site and is working properly
TS11: Check whether all the fields are arranged in the chronological order
TS12: Check whether all the data inside combo/list box is arranged in chronological order
TS13: Check whether the mandatory field is marked using asterisk sign
TS14: Check whether the data entered in fields such as email, phone number, date etc. is in the correct format.
TS15: Check whether any error message is displayed when invalid format is used in a field
TS16: Check whether any error message is displayed when input exceeds the maximum allowed strength
TS17: Check whether all the mandatory fields are filled before clicking the submit button
TS18: Check whether error message is displayed when any of the mandatory field is skipped and submit button is clicked.
TS19: Check whether we can submit without entering the optional fields
TS20: Check whether the system is not displaying error message for optional fields
TS21: Check whether default values are being populated
TS22: Check whether the data in the forms is submitted to a live database or is linked to a working email address
TS23: Check whether negative numbers are allowed in a numeric field.
TS24: Check whether error message is displayed when alphabets are entered in the numeric field
TS25: Check whether division by zero is handled properly for calculations
TS26: Check whether the timeout functionality is working correctly
TS27: Check whether error message is displayed if data is entered after timeout
TS28: Check whether all forms are submitted successfully
TS29: Verify the maximum length of every field to ensure that the data is not truncated
TS30: Check whether the amount values are displayed in currency format
TS31: Verify the sorting functionality
TS32: Verify the email functionality of the system.
TS33: Check whether the privacy policy & FAQ is clearly defined and are available for users
TS34: Check whether pop up message is displayed if the data reaches the maximum size of the field
TS35: Check whether the leap years are validated correctly and do not cause errors/miscalculations
TS36: Verify all input fields for special characters
TS37: Verify if any functionality fails the user gets redirected to the custom error page.
TS38: Check whether all the uploaded documents are opened properly.
TS39: Verify if the user is able to download the uploaded files.
TS40: Check whether a cookie is created when a user visits a website for the first time and that the cookies contains the expected data 
TS41: Check whether login credentials are asked for when we delete cookies and visit the site once again
TS42: Check whether personalized content is displayed on the site based on the data stored in the cookie
TS43: Check whether the cookie has an expiry date and is deleted from the user’s device when it expires 
TS44: Check whether the cookie is deleted from the user’s device when the user clears their browser history and cookies.
TS45: Verify what happens if a user deletes cookies while in the site.
TS46: Verify what happens if a user deletes cookies after visiting a site.
TS47: Check whether the user can block cookies

USABILITY

TS1: Check whether contents displayed on the website are clear and understandable to the user
TS2: Check whether menus, buttons, links and other navigational elements are easily visible and consistent on all webpages
TS3: Check whether the contents are legible with no spelling or grammatical errors.
TS4: Check whether the contents are appropriate
TS5: Check whether the images matches with the content given
TS6: Check whether the content is organized logically and users can quickly find the information they need
TS7: Check whether an alt text appears in place of an image if the image fails to load on a user’s screen
TS8: Check whether the website has a consistent, clearly recognizable “look & feel”
TS9: Check whether the website is easy to navigate and whether users can find what they are looking for quickly and easily
TS10: Check whether the website is accessible to all users including those with disabilities or limitations
TS11: Check whether the design, layout etc… are consistent across all pages
TS12: Check whether the website loads quickly so that user don’t get frustrated or lose interest
TS13: Check whether the website is responsive and optimized for mobile devices
TS14: Verify the color, contrast, font size…
TS15: Check whether correct error message is displayed to guide the user
TS16: verify that the error message has no spelling or grammatical errors
TS17: Check whether all fields are properly aligned
TS18: Check whether there is enough space between field labels, columns, rows and error messages
TS19: Check whether the disabled fields are grayed out
TS20: Verify if there is any broken links and images
TS21: Check whether the title is displayed on each web page
TS22: Verify if the dropdown data is not truncated due to field size
TS23: Check whether the site provides feedbacks, FAQ ….to help users find solution to their problems
TS24: Check whether tool tip text is present in every field
TS25: Check whether the information filled by the user is not cleared if an error occurs on submit
TS26: Check whether all the tabs are working properly
TS27: Check whether all buttons, fields… are of standard format and size
TS28: Check whether the home link is available in every single page
TS29: Check whether font for a particular section is same and is as per the requirement
TS30: Check whether all the textboxes, dropdowns and other fields and buttons are accessible by keyboard shortcuts
TS31: Check whether scroll bar is appearing only if required
TS32: Check whether the website has scroll up button
TS33: Check whether confirmation message is displayed for any kind of update and delete operation
TS34: Check whether the site is displayed correctly in different resolutions
TS35: Check whether all the text are properly aligned

PERFORMANCE
TS1: Check whether the page load time is within the acceptable range
TS2: Check whether the page loads on slow connections
TS3: Verify website’s response times at different connection speed
TS4: verify website’s performance under light, moderate and heavy user loads
TS5: Check whether the website remains responsive and usable when user load is above the maximum load
TS6: Check whether the site recover from a crash due to peak load
TS7: Verify CPU and memory usage under peak load conditions
TS8: Check whether the website remains responsive and usable over an extended period
TS9: Check whether the application is able to handle sudden increase or decrease of load
TS10: Check whether the website’s database can handle the expected number of database requests 
TS11: Check whether the website remains responsive and usable under high database load conditions
TS12: Check whether the optimization techniques like gzip compression, browser and server side cache enabled to reduce load time
TS13: Check whether the website loads quickly and remains responsive on different geographical locations with varying network speeds 


SECURITY

TS1: Verify the important information like password, credit card numbers etc… are displayed in encrypted format (in asterisk format).
TS2: Verify the web page which contains important data like password, credit card numbers, secret answers for security question etc… are submitted via HTTPS (SSL). 
TS3: Check whether we are getting OTP when payment is made using debit card, net banking etc…
TS4: Verify that the web page uses HTTPs and is enabled for all pages
TS5: Verify password rules are implemented on all authentication pages like Registration, forgot password, change password.
TS6: Verify if the password is changed the user should not be able to login with the old password.
TS7: Verify the error messages should not display any important information.
TS8: Verify if the user is logged out from the system or user session was expired, the user should not be able to navigate the site.
TS9: Verify to access the secured and non-secured web pages directly without login.
TS10: Verify the “View Source code” option is disabled and should not be visible to the user.
TS11: Verify the user account gets locked out if the user is entering the wrong password several times.
TS12: Verify the cookies should not store passwords.
TS13: Verify if, any functionality is not working, the system should not display any application, server, or database information. Instead, it should display the custom error page.
TS14: Verify the SQL injection attacks.
TS15: Verify the application for Brute Force Attacks
TS16: Verify the user roles and their rights. For Example, the requestor should not be able to access the admin page.
TS17: Check whether bookmarked webpages are accessible without login to the site
TS18: Check whether browser back button is not available when transaction is processing
TS19: Verify the important operations are written in log files, and that information should be traceable.
TS20: Verify the session values are in an encrypted format in the address bar.
TS21: Verify the cookie information is stored in encrypted format.
TS22: Check whether we are prevented from doing direct searches by editing content in the URL
TS23: Verify that restricted page should not be accessible by user after session time out.
TS24: check whether sessions are automatically killed after prolonged user inactivity
TS25: Verify the login session timeout duration. So, once logged in a user cannot be authenticated for a lifetime.
TS26: Verify that once logged in, clicking the back button doesn’t log out the user.
TS27: check whether restricted files are not downloadable without appropriate access
TS28: check whether unauthorized access to secure pages is not permitted
TS29: Verify if we open the application in two browsers and change the password in one browser then then we are not able to access the application in other browser. It should logout automatically
TS30: Verify if we copy the url and logout, we shouldn’t be allowed to access the account using the copied url.
TS31: Check whether we can login from multiple devices at a time
TS32: Check whether we can access the previous accessed pages after we logout and press back button


NEGATIVE TEST SCENARIOS FOR WHATSAPP

TS1: Check whether we can register with an invalid phone number format (e.g. using letters instead of digits)
TS2: Check whether we can Register with a phone number that is already associated with an existing account
TS3: Check whether we can Register with a phone number that is not valid or does not exist
TS4: Check whether we access the same account in multiple phones at the same time
TS5: Check whether we can use an incorrect verification code during registration
TS6: Check whether we can use an already used verification code during registration
TS7: Check whether we can log in with an incorrect phone number 
TS8: Check whether we can send messages without an internet connection
TS9: Check whether we can send messages to a non-existent phone number or user
TS10: Check whether we can send messages to a user who has blocked the sender
TS11: Check whether we can send a regular file having size larger than 100MB as attachment 
TS12: Check whether we can send a video whose size is more than 17MB
TS13: Check whether we can send audio message whose size is more than 16MB
TS14: Check whether we can send a video in a format other than MP4, 3GP, MKV, AVI and MOV. 
TS15: Check whether we can join a group that has already reached the maximum number of participants (1024 people)
TS16: Check whether we can add a user to a group chat who has their privacy settings set to only my contacts/ specific contacts can add me to the group
TS17: Check whether we can add a user to a group who has already left the chat and changed ‘who can add me to group’ settings to only my contacts/ specific contacts
TS18: Check whether we can add a user to a group who has already been added to the chat
TS19: Check whether we can add a user to a group who has blocked the sender
TS20: Check whether we can send a message to a group that has already been deleted
TS21: Check whether we can send a message to a user who has been deleted or deactivated
TS22: Check whether we can make a voice or video call without an internet connection
TS23: Check whether we can make a call to a user who has blocked the caller
TS24: Check whether we can start a call with a user who is already on another call
TS25: Check whether we can add more than 32 people to voice call /video call
TS26: Check whether we can call a non-existent phone number or user
TS27: Check whether we can share a media file that is corrupted or incompatible with WhatsApp
TS28: Check whether we can share a media file that contains a virus or malware
TS529: Check whether we can use GIF as profile picture 
TS30: Check whether we can put an image other the square size as profile picture
TS31: Check whether everybody can view the profile picture if it set for only ‘my contacts’
TS32: Check whether we can send a message in a language that is not supported by WhatsApp
TS33: Check whether we can send a message with a font size that is too large or too small
TS34: Check whether we can send a message with a font type that is not supported by WhatsApp
TS35: Check whether we can change the notification settings for a user who has deleted the app
TS36: Check whether we can change the notification settings for a chat or group that has been deleted
TS37: Check whether we use can WhatsApp on an unsupported device or operating system
TS38: Check whether we can use WhatsApp with an outdated version of the app
TS39: Check whether we can use WhatsApp while the device is in airplane mode
TS40: Check whether send a message with a blank text field
TS41: Check whether name field accepts more than 25 characters
TS42: Check whether more than 30 images can be send at a time
TS43: Check whether the status lasts for more than 24 hours
TS44: Check whether not saved contacts can view status
TS45: Check whether more than 30 images can be set as status
TS46: Check whether more than 30 sec (6.4MB) video can be added to status
TS47: Check whether we can use audio as status
TS48: Check whether it accepts more than 139 characters in status
TS49: Check whether we can view last seen of others if we have set our last seen to nobody
TS50: Check whether we can use GIF as wallpaper
TS51: Check whether we can pin more than 3 chats
TS52: Check whether we can add more than 12 options in a poll
TS53: Check whether it accepts invalid bank details for payments
TS54: Check whether we can send forward message to more than 5 whatsapp groups/chats

